README.md, before:

This repository builds the invariants website at: [https://trajectory-invariants.github.io/](https://trajectory-invariants.github.io/)

The website is intended to 
- shortly explain the main features and use of the invariants
- explain the methods that we use: screw theory, optimization
- provide documentation for using the Matlab and Python code
- showcase applications of invariant descriptors
- point towards major publications

## Building the website locally

To work locally with this project, you'll have to follow the steps below:

1. Clone this repository.

   ```shell
   git clone git@gitlab.kuleuven.be:robotgenskill/public_code/invariants_website.git
   ```

1. Install Hugo. 

   - **Windows**: Download the binaries of the [latest release](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/releases/tag/v0.120.4). Scroll down until you see `hugo_extended_0.120.4_windows-amd64.zip`, and download the zip file. If you are on your work computer, make the following folder and unzip and move the package to this location: `C:\Workdir\Programs\Hugo\`. 

   - **Ubuntu**: you can easily install the latest version of Hugo through the terminal:

      ```shell
      sudo snap install hugo
      ```

1. Open a terminal (or `git bash`) and navigate to where you cloned this repository. 

   ```shell
   cd invariants_website
   ```

      - If you are in Windows you need to also add the Hugo folder to your path

         ```shell
         PATH=$PATH:/C/Workdir/Programs/Hugo/hugo_extended_0.120.4_windows-amd64
         ```

1. Generate the website with the following command:

   ```shell
   hugo server
   ```

1. Open a browser to view the website, e.g. at `http://localhost:1313/public_code/invariants_website/`
1. Add or change content. The website will update automatically.
1. (Optional) Generate and write the HTML files of the website:

   ```shell
   hugo
   ```

   This command generates the `public/` folder which holds the static HTML files of the website, while `hugo server` only keeps the generated files in working memory. For the public website, this is done by GitLab Pages.

Once you are satisfied with the local website, you can commit and push the changes to GitLab to update the public website.

## Technical background

The website is implemented with the [Hugo](https://gohugo.io) framework in combination with the [Hextra theme](https://github.com/imfing/hextra). The website is built using [GitLab Pages](https://about.gitlab.com/stages-devops-lifecycle/pages/) following the steps defined in [`.gitlab-ci.yml`](.gitlab-ci.yml).

## TODOs

- logo to replace hexagon in top left
- possibly register custom domain, see email Ronny Moreas: "Je kan inderdaad een custom domeinnaam laten registreren bij ons. Zie bijvoorbeeld https://ras.pages.gitlab.kuleuven.be/ras-dissemination/mynutia.com/ -> https://mynutia.com/. Dat kan eventueel ook onder het mech.kuleuven.be domein, dan zijn er geen DNS-registratiekosten."

Commit message:

update readme from gitlab to github

README.md, after:

This repository builds the Trajectory Invariants website at: [https://trajectory-invariants.github.io/](https://trajectory-invariants.github.io/)

The website is intended to 
- explain what trajectory invariants are
- explain the underlying methods that we use: screw theory, optimization
- explain the main features of the software
- provide documentation for using the Matlab and Python code
- showcase applications of invariant descriptors
- point towards major publications

## Building the website locally

To work locally, you'll have to follow the steps below:

1. Clone this repository.

   ```shell
   git clone https://github.com/trajectory-invariants/trajectory-invariants.github.io.git
   ```

1. Install Hugo. 

   - **Windows**: Download the binaries of the [latest release](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/releases/tag/v0.120.4). Scroll down until you see `hugo_extended_0.120.4_windows-amd64.zip`, and download the zip file. Make the following folder and unzip and move the package to this location: `C:\Workdir\Programs\Hugo\`. 

   - **Ubuntu**: you can easily install the latest version of Hugo through the terminal:

      ```shell
      sudo snap install hugo
      ```

1. Open a terminal in Linux (or `git bash` in Windows) and navigate to where you cloned this repository. 

   ```shell
   cd trajectory-invariants.github.io
   ```

      - If you are in Windows you also need to add the Hugo folder to your path

         ```shell
         PATH=$PATH:/C/Workdir/Programs/Hugo/hugo_extended_0.120.4_windows-amd64
         ```

1. Generate the website with the following command:

   ```shell
   hugo server
   ```

1. Open a browser to view the website, e.g. at `http://localhost:1313/`
1. Add or change content. The website will refresh automatically.
1. (Optional) Generate and write the HTML files of the website:

   ```shell
   hugo
   ```

   This command generates the `public/` folder which holds the static HTML files of the website, while `hugo server` only keeps the generated files in working memory. For the public website, this step is done by a GitHub workflow action.

Once you are satisfied with the local website, you need to commit and push the changes to the remote GitHub repository to update the public website.

## Technical background

The website is implemented with the [Hugo](https://gohugo.io) framework in combination with the [Hextra theme](https://github.com/imfing/hextra). The website is built using a GitHub workflow following the steps defined in [`build-and-deploy.yml`](.github/build-and-deploy.yml).

## Suggestions for improvement?

You can submit an issue through https://github.com/trajectory-invariants/trajectory-invariants.github.io/issues
